---
layout:     post
title:      mach_msg 详解
subtitle:   mach_msg 详解 
date:       2019-02-26
author:     GK
header-img: img/home-bg-o.jpg
catalog:    true
tags:
    - mach_msg
---

# mach_msg 函数

&emsp;&emsp;mach_msg 定义如下：
```c
mach_msg_return_t mach_msg(
	mach_msg_header_t *msg,
	mach_msg_option_t option,
	mach_msg_size_t send_size,
	mach_msg_size_t rcv_size,
	mach_port_name_t rcv_name,
	mach_msg_timeout_t timeout,
	mach_port_name_t notify);
```
&emsp;&emsp;msg 为要发送或接收消息的 buff。

&emsp;&emsp;option 经常用的是 MACH_SEND_MSG 和 MACH_RCV_MSG 这两个宏。

&emsp;&emsp;send_size 和 rcv_size 是发送或接收时指定的大小。

&emsp;&emsp;rcv_name 是接收的 port。

&emsp;&emsp;timeout 是超时设置。

&emsp;&emsp;notify 是通知消息状态的 port。

&emsp;&emsp;消息包括 header、body 和 trailer。

# msg header

&emsp;&emsp;header 的结构体：
```c
typedef	struct 
{
	mach_msg_bits_t		msgh_bits;
	mach_msg_size_t		msgh_size;
	mach_port_t			msgh_remote_port;
	mach_port_t			msgh_local_port;
	mach_port_name_t	msgh_voucher_port;
	mach_msg_id_t		msgh_id;
} mach_msg_header_t;
```
&emsp;&emsp;msgh_bits 对于 complex 消息，需设置 MACH_MSGH_BITS_COMPLEX 宏，同时设置 MACH_MSGH_BITS(remote, local) 宏用于确定发送消息给对端的 port right，或者使用 MACH_MSGH_BITS_LOCAL(bits) 和 MACH_MSGH_BITS_REMOTE(bits) 宏取出消息接收到的 port right，具体参考如下：

>In a sent message, the following mach_msg_type_name_t values denote port rights:
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_MAKE_SEND
>
>The message will carry a send right, but the caller must supply a receive right. The send right is created from the receive right, and the receive right's make-send count is incremented.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_COPY_SEND
>
>The message will carry a send right, and the caller must supply a send right. The user reference count for the supplied send right is not changed. The caller may also supply a dead name and the receiving task will get MACH_PORT_DEAD.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_SEND
>
>The message will carry a send right, and the caller must supply a send right. The user reference count for the supplied send right is decremented, and the right is destroyed if the count becomes zero. Unless a receive right remains, the name becomes available for recycling. The caller may also supply a dead name, which loses a user reference, and the receiving task will get MACH_PORT_DEAD.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_MAKE_SEND_ONCE
>
>The message will carry a send-once right, but the caller must supply a receive right. The send-once right is created from the receive right. Note that send once rights can only be created from the receive right.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_SEND_ONCE
>
>The message will carry a send-once right, and the caller must supply a send-once right. The caller loses the supplied send-once right. The caller may also supply a dead name, which loses a user reference, and the receiving task will get MACH_PORT_DEAD.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_RECEIVE
>
>The message will carry a receive right, and the caller must supply a receive right. The caller loses the supplied receive right, but retains any send rights with the same name. The make-send count and sequence number of the receive right are reset to zero and no-more-senders notification requests are cancelled (with a send-once notification being sent to the no-more-senders notification right), but the port retains other attributes like queued messages and extant send and send-once rights. If a message carries a send or send-once right, and the port dies while the message is in transit, then the receiving task will get MACH_PORT_DEAD instead of a right.
The following mach_msg_type_name_t values in a received message indicate that it carries port rights:
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_PORT_SEND
>
>This value is an alias for MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_SEND. The message carried a send right. If the receiving task already has send and/ or receive rights for the port, then that name for the port will be reused. Otherwise, the right will have a new, previously unused, name. If the task already has send rights, it gains a user reference for the right (un- less this would cause the user-reference count to overflow). Otherwise, it acquires send rights, with a user-reference count of one.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_PORT_SEND_ONCE
>
>This value is an alias for MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_SEND_ONCE. The message carried a send-once right. The right will have a new, previously unused, name.
>
>MACH_MSG_TYPE_PORT_RECEIVE
>
>This value is an alias for MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_RECEIVE. The message carried a receive right. If the receiving task already has send rights for the port, then that name for the port will be reused; otherwise, the right will have a new, previously unused name.

&emsp;&emsp;msgh_size 仅表示接收消息的大小，包括 header、body、trailer 和 inline data。

&emsp;&emsp;msgh_remote_port 和 msgh_local_port 表示消息的对端端口和本地端口。

&emsp;&emsp;msgh_voucher_port 暂时用不到。

&emsp;&emsp;msgh_id 表示消息 id。

# msg body

&emsp;&emsp;header 之后紧随 body，如果是 simple 消息，body 部分就是 inline data；如果是 complex 消息，body 定义如下：
```c
typedef struct
{
	mach_msg_size_t msgh_descriptor_count;
} mach_msg_body_t;
```
&emsp;&emsp;msgh_descriptor_count 表示后面跟随的 descriptor 数量。

# msg descriptor

&emsp;&emsp;descriptor 一共有四种，定义如下：
```c
typedef struct
{
	natural_t					pad1;
	mach_msg_size_t				pad2;
	unsigned int				pad3 : 24;
	mach_msg_descriptor_type_t	type : 8;
} mach_msg_type_descriptor_t;

typedef struct
{
	mach_port_t					name;
	// Pad to 8 bytes everywhere except the K64 kernel where mach_port_t is 8 bytes
	
	mach_msg_size_t				pad1;
	unsigned int				pad2 : 16;
	mach_msg_type_name_t		disposition : 8;
	mach_msg_descriptor_type_t	type : 8;
} mach_msg_port_descriptor_t;

typedef struct
{
	void*						address;
	#if !defined(__LP64__)

	mach_msg_size_t				size;
	#endif

	boolean_t					deallocate: 8;
	mach_msg_copy_options_t		copy: 8;
	unsigned int				pad1: 8;
	mach_msg_descriptor_type_t	type: 8;
	#if defined(__LP64__)

	mach_msg_size_t				size;
	#endif

} mach_msg_ool_descriptor_t;

typedef struct
{
	void*						address;
	#if !defined(__LP64__)

	mach_msg_size_t				count;
	#endif

	boolean_t					deallocate: 8;
	mach_msg_copy_options_t		copy: 8;
	mach_msg_type_name_t		disposition : 8;
	mach_msg_descriptor_type_t	type : 8;
	#if defined(__LP64__)

	mach_msg_size_t				count;
	#endif

} mach_msg_ool_ports_descriptor_t;
```
&emsp;&emsp;deallocate 为 true 时，address 代表的 buff 明确被 vm_deallocate。

&emsp;&emsp;copy 为 MACH_MSG_VIRTUAL_COPY 时，由内核决定拷贝方式，为 MACH_MSG_PHYSICAL_COPY 时，内核确实拷贝了一份内存，port arrays 总是使用 MACH_MSG_PHYSICAL_COPY。

# msg trailer

&emsp;&emsp;trailer 也分很多种，不再一一举例，当内核申请内存保存消息时，trailer 被假定大小是 MAX_TRAILER_SIZE。

# 总结

&emsp;&emsp;继续扩充中……


